Dataset (#2)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/Dataset.tex

\section{Dataset}

> Nordjyske is a Danish news agency that maintains multiple newspapers, radios and other news sources throughout north Jutland, a region in Denmark.
> They store their news articles in a non-public database, where each article contains multiple meta-data fields which describes some aspect of the data eg. author.
> The dataset is from 2017 to 2019 and contains 139261 articles which uses a vocabulary of 69192 unique words.
> One of the metadata fields is the Category field, which both describes where the article is supposed to be located(within a newspaper) and also which subject the article is about.
> These meta-data are very interesting in that they detail the data in certain ways which might be useful in some way.
> 
> In the following section, we describe each of the meta-data fields which are analysed.
> 
> \subsection{Author}
> This field mentions the author, who have written the article.
> Each article only has a single author, so we do not account for multiple authors in this paper.
> This field is fully observed within the dataset, which means that every article has an author.
> There are $227$ different authors within the dataset and they are almost evenly distributed in the number of articles they have written.
> 
> \subsection{Category}
> The category field describes a variety of different aspects. 
> This field is fully observed within the dataset and there are $58$ different categories.
> A proportion of the articles contains which specific newspaper, they belong to, eg. Aalborg-Newspaper.
> Another proportion of the category fields describes the overall theme, such as Culture and Sports-newspaper.
> 
> \subsection{Taxonomy}
> The taxonomy field describes a hierarchical structure of the topical or geographical subject of the articles.
> This field is only partially observed within the dataset, which means that roughly $50\%$ of the articles contain this field.
> We observe a general pattern when traversing this field which is:

Author: ```suggestion
Nordjyske is a Danish news agency that maintains multiple newspapers, radios, and other news sources throughout north Jutland, a region in Denmark.
They store their news articles in a non-public database, where each article contains multiple meta-data fields which describes some aspect of the data eg. author.
The dataset is from 2017 to 2019 and contains 139261 articles that use a vocabulary of 69192 unique words.
One of the metadata fields is the Category field, which both describes where the article is supposed to be located(within a newspaper) and also which subject the article is about.
This meta-data is very interesting in that they detail the data in certain ways which might be useful in some way.

In the following section, we describe each of the meta-data fields which are analyzed.

\subsection{Author}
This field mentions the author, who has written the article.
Each article only has a single author, so we do not account for multiple authors in this paper.
This field is fully observed within the dataset, which means that every article has an author.
There are $227$ different authors within the dataset and they are almost evenly distributed in the number of articles they have written.

\subsection{Category}
The category field describes a variety of different aspects. 
This field is fully observed within the dataset and there are $58$ different categories.
A proportion of the articles contains which specific newspaper, they belong to, eg. Aalborg-Newspaper.
Another proportion of the category fields describes the overall theme, such as Culture and Sports-newspaper.

\subsection{Taxonomy}
The taxonomy field describes a hierarchical structure of the topical or geographical subject of the articles.
This field is only partially observed within the dataset, which means that roughly $50\%$ of the articles contain this field.
We observe a general pattern when traversing this field which is:
```

\autoref{fig:category_box} shows an overview of the size of the categories after filtering.\langballe[inline]{consider showing name of categories and relvative dataset size.}
\todo[inline]{Keep up to date on whether we filter or not.}
\todo[inline]{Maybe shortly describe some observations in the boxplot. Mention outlier.}

\begin{figure}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=1 \linewidth]{figures/category_box.png}
	\caption{Boxplot over the size of the categories. Size meaning the amount of documents with the same category.}
	\label{fig:category_box}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Taxonomy}
The taxonomy field describes a hierarchical structure of the topical or geographical subject of the articles.
This field is only partially observed within the dataset, which means that roughly $50\%$ of the articles contain this field.
Each article can also contain multiple taxonomies.
We observe some general patterns when traversing this field, which are:
\begin{itemize}
	\item PLACES/Country/Region/Town
	\item TOPICS/Sub-Topic/Subsub-topic
\end{itemize}
Examples of this field are:
\begin{itemize}
	\item PLACES/Danmark/Nordjylland/Aalborg/Lillevorde
	\item TOPICS/Religion/Christianity
\end{itemize}

> About $80\%$ of the observed variables contain the 'PLACES' variable and $20\%$ use the 'TOPICS' variable. 
> \todo[inline]{What is specifically meant by 'variable'? Is it the same as the field, or something else?}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
About $80\%$ of the observed fields contain the 'PLACES' variable and $20\%$ use the 'TOPICS' variable. 
```
Det her løser min forvirring med sætningen.

The taxonomy field describes a hierarchical structure of the topical or geographical subject of the articles.
This field is only partially observed within the dataset, which means that roughly $50\%$ of the articles contain this field.
Each article can also contain multiple taxonomies.
We observe some general patterns when traversing this field, which are:
\begin{itemize}
	\item PLACES/Country/Region/Town
	\item TOPICS/Sub-Topic/Subsub-topic
\end{itemize}
Examples of this field are:
\begin{itemize}
	\item PLACES/Danmark/Nordjylland/Aalborg/Lillevorde
	\item TOPICS/Religion/Christianity
\end{itemize}
About $80\%$ of the observed variables contain the 'PLACES' variable and $20\%$ use the 'TOPICS' variable. 

> \todo[inline]{What is specifically meant by 'variable'? Is it the same as the field, or something else?}

Reviewer 2: Ved ikke hvilke ord vi bør bruge, men det er forskellen mellem feltet (taxonomy), hvad der ligger i feltet (TOPICS/Sub-Topic/Subsub-topic), og de enkelte dele af hvad der ligger i feltet (TOPICS)
